---
layout: post
title: Consumer Robots are Dead, Long Live DYI Robots!
date: 2019-06-23 00:00:00 -0800
---

In a span of last one year, we witness the death of major consumer robot companies.
What went wrong?
Guy Hoffman, a robotics expert, provided a comprehensive summary of possible reasons for the demise of the abovementioned companies.
In my opinion, over-promise and under-deliver was the most severe problem.
I mean, just look at this commercial and look at a real robot.

<!-- I'm not sure if robot researcher can ever get over this problem. -->

I believe the problem is rooted in culture.
When we hear "robot" we think of .
I grew up in Asia where robots where the animations have forms of people.
In fact, it wasn't much different in US where. (in old days jetsons)
Further more, new materials show robots as humans.
Researchers are also humans just want to do that.

<!-- So what do we do now? -->

So where do we go from here?
One obvious thing is doing nothing.
We just wait for Amazon, google, or facebook to build a next gen consumer robot and eventually general purpose robot.
Or we could encourage everyone to build their own robot!

I understand that is not easy.
However, software side ... is coming.
ROS is a starting point and companies are forming around and providing.
And to be honest, I'm not so familiar with hardware side, but seeing ... and possibility of having cheaper parts ...

Why do this?
I want future to be a place where individuals have knoledge to use tools.
I hope working on a project of building a intelligent tool like using npm packages.
That relies on multiple small projects.

<!-- * laundry -->
<!-- * grinder -->
<!-- * modular & reconfigurable tools that handle uncertianty given assumptions -->

I hope.

Maybe we won't use the word "robot" any more, but will be calling part of automated things or ...

Have a link to Rick's blog here.


<!-- IDEAs -->
<!-- how I needed to join a lab to do this with the picture of me holding a hoap robot -->
