---
layout: post
title: "Testing robotics systems"
date: 2020-12-16 00:00:00 -0800
---

### Applying Existing Testing Frameworks to Robotics System Development Settings:

1. A unit testing framework

- Example frameworks: unittest (python), jest (javascript), gtest & rostest (C++ & ROS)
  - Often used with a “re-test on save” type tool, e.g., nodemon
- Use cases
  - Testing a small, independent, helper/utility functions
  - Testing a vision or planner module with hand-selected, stored input images or environments + start/goal poses; selected cases are both common and edge cases.

2. Property-based testing framework

- Example frameworks: fast-check
  - Often used with a simple, tiny, fake perception input or robot configurations (e.g., something from here)
- Applying to robotics settings
  - Express properties of a certain module (e.g., a vision or planner module) by test inputs (e.g., an image, 3D points, robot configurations) created from some sampled parameters and expected outputs.
  - Create many test point clouds for a plane model segmentation (e.g., for tabletop detection) using a parameterized model of your choice and sampled parameters from arbitraries (or something equivalent provided by a property testing framework). This also gives you the expected outputs of a module (because we know the ground truth). The property-based testing framework can create a lot of test cases.

3. Temporal specifications

- Description: Not a framework, but a way of expressing a temporal specification/test case, e.g., using a temporal logic like LTL.
- Use case:
  - Many robot programs that represent robot behaviors (e.g., in FSM, Behavior Tree, etc.) takes a sequence of inputs and outputs, which is difficult to test using the existing unit or property-based testing framework because it is difficult to express temporal specifications like “never send velocity higher than a threshold”, etc. (e.g., need to create a test case for every timestamp!)
  - A temporal specification can be especially useful when used with a property-based framework with a bit of work to make it work with sequential inputs/outputs (e.g., something like this).

4. Physical continuous integration

- Description: https://roscon.ros.org/2016/presentations/PhysicalContinuousIntegrationSlides.pdf
- Notes: Useful if we really need to make the physical system work
  - Don’t need to go this far in most research projects, but might be useful for robo-cup-like projects

### Related research fields and ideas

1. Tools & technologies from games development community
2. Voice agent, conversational interface testing tools
